=head1 NAME

kvmadm - Manage KVMs under SMF control

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kvmadm> I<command> [I<options...>]

where 'command' is one of the following:

    create <kvm_name>

    import <filename>

    delete [--purge=vnic,zvol,zone] <kvm_name>

    edit <kvm_name>

    list [kvm_name]

    state [kvm_name]

    start <kvm_name>

    stop <kvm_name>

    restart <kvm_name>

    show-cmd <kvm_name>

    info [type,...] <kvm_name>

    monitor <kvm_name>

    vnc <[bind_addr:]port> <kvm_name> 

    help

    man

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Use kvmadm to create/edit your KVMs under SMF control

=head2 B<create>

creates a KVM instance with the name B<kvm_name>. Create will open an editor
where the properties can be set. zvols and/or vnics which do not
exist will be created.

for the KVM instance the following properties can be set:

 optional
     vnc
     vnc_pw_file
     vcpus
     ram
     time_base
     boot_order
     hpet
     usb_tablet
     kb_layout
     uuid
     shutdown
     cleanup
     qemu_extra_opts
     pre_start_cmd

for each disk the following properties can be set:

 mandatory
     model
     disk_path
     index 

 optional
     boot
     media
     disk_size
     block_size
     cache

for each vnic the following properties can be set:

 mandatory
    model
    nic_name
    index

 optional
    over
    vlan_id
    mtu
    txtimer
    txburst

for each serial the following properties can be set:

 mandatory
    serial_name
    index

kvmadm supports zones. zone properties are according to I<zonecfg>.
global properties can be set as "property" : "value" pair, single
resources as "resource" : { } hash structure and multiple resources
as "resource" : [ { }, ... ] array of hash structures. B<vnics> and
B<zvols> must not be added to the zone configuration as kvmadm will
add them automatically when setting up the zone.

=head2 B<import>

imports a KVM configuration from a file.

=head2 B<delete>

deletes the KVM instance with the name B<kvm_name>. Note: zvols, vnics
and zones will B<not> be deleted by default. use the B<--purge> option.

=head2 B<edit>

modify the configuration of a KVM instance. See the descriptions in the B<create>
function for details.

=head2 B<list>

lists the available KVM instances with their properties. Lists details for B<kvm_name>
is given.

=head2 B<state>

prints the state of the KVM instance(s)

=head2 B<start>

starts the KVM instance B<kvm_name>

=head2 B<stop>

stops the KVM instance B<kvm_name>

=head2 B<restart>

restarts the KVM instance B<kvm_name>

=head2 B<show-cmd>

prints the KVM invocation command for debug purpose

=head2 B<info>

queries information about the running KVM instance from qemu monitor.

type can be one of the following:

     all
     block
     blockstats
     chardev
     cpus
     kvm
     network
     pci
     registers
     qtree
     usb
     version
     vnc

=head2 B<monitor>

connects to the qemu monitor of the running KVM instance

=head2 B<vnc>

forwards the vnc socket to IP

=head1 EXAMPLES

create a KVM instance with the name 'test-kvm'

    kvmadm create test-kvm

check the KVM instance properties

    kvmadm list test-kvm

list the available KVM instances

    svcs system/kvm

copy a KVM instance

    kvmadm list test-kvm > test-kvm.json

    kvmadm import test-kvm.json

wait 5 minutes before starting the qemu process

    "pre_start_cmd" : "/usr/bin/sleep 300"

basic zone setup

    "zone" : {
        "zonepath" : "/zones/test-kvm",
        "brand"    : "lipkg",
        "ip-type"  : "exclusive"
    }

adding readonly zone access to a vnc password file

    "zone" : {
        ...
        "fs" : [
            {
                "dir"     : "/etc/opt/kvmadm/myvncpw",
                "special" : "/etc/opt/kvmadm/myvncpw,
                "type"    : "lofs",
                "options" : "[ro,nodevices]"
            }
        ]
    }

query the attached block devices of a KVM instance with the name 'test-kvm'

    kvmadm info block test-kvm

connect to the qemu monitor of the KVM instance with the name 'test-kvm'

    kvmadm monitor test-kvm

forward the vnc socket of the KVM instance with the name 'test-kvm' to the TCP port 5900 

    kvmadm vnc 5900 test-kvm

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015 by OETIKER+PARTNER AG. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see L<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

S<Tobias Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt>>
S<Dominik Hassler E<lt>hadfl@cpan.orgE<gt>>

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGMENT

While the clever configuration options and other cool ideas have been shamelessly
stolen from Joyent's vmadm, the bugs and misfeatures are all exclusive to kvmadm.

=head1 HISTORY

2015-04-28 had Zone support
2014-10-03 had Initial Version

=cut
