=head1 NAME

kvmcli - KVM monitoring and connection tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kvmcli> I<command> [I<options...>]

where 'command' is one of the following:

    info <kvm_name> [type,...]

    monitor <kvm_name>

    console <serial_name> <kvm_name>

    vnc <[bind_addr:]port> <kvm_name> 

    help

    man

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Use kvmcli for monitoring KVM instances and connecting to serial consoles

=head2 B<info>

queries information about the running KVM instance from qemu monitor.

type can be one of the following:

     all
     block
     blockstats
     chardev
     cpus
     kvm
     network
     pci
     registers
     qtree
     usb
     version
     vnc

=head2 B<monitor>

connects to the qemu monitor of the running KVM instance

=head2 B<console>

connects to the console fo the serial port B<serial_name>

=head2 B<vnc>

forwards the vnc socket to a TCP port

=head1 EXAMPLES

query the attached block devices of a KVM instance with the name 'test-kvm'

    kvmcli info test-kvm block

connect to the qemu monitor of the KVM instance with the name 'test-kvm'

    kvmcli monitor test-kvm

forward the vnc socket of the KVM instance with the name 'test-kvm' to the TCP port 5900 

    kvmcli vnc 5900 test-kvm

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2014 by OETIKER+PARTNER AG. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see L<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

S<Tobias Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt>>
S<Dominik Hassler E<lt>hadfl@cpan.orgE<gt>>

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGMENT

While the clever configuration options and other cool ideas have been shamelessly
stolen from Joyent's vmadm, the bugs and misfeatures are all exclusive to kvmadm.

=head1 HISTORY

2015-01-05 had Initial Version

=cut
